okay my first day having a look at the
cars in Bahrain what a brilliant day
there is a corner here which is not only
the best corner on the Bahrain circuit
but in my view probably the best place
to watch Formula one cars anywhere in
the world it's got everything just let's
have a look on the my computer here
that's the corner it's not a great
picture of it but what is actually
happening here is that they're coming
through a very quick section here which
is a kink the road is going down the
gradients going down they're coming
through this fast King and then breaking
hard in down the second gear to this
left hand and then there's a long
straight afterwards so there are a lot
of elements here there's the fast
approach there's the breaking to very
slow speed whilst the car is loaded and
it's going downhill and then there's the
long straight afterwards so every slight
mistake is penalized it's a brilliant
place to watch nobody there today at all
actually keke rosberg was there watching
his son going round and round which was
good anyway it was fabulous to watch
their first point just general
observations the cars as they accelerate
away down that long straight which is
parallel to the mains to the pit
straight it's fascinating to see how
different the gear ratios are already
what already it's going to be like that
all year but they've got the different
ratios at this point pre-season even
amongst the groupings of the engine
manufacturers so if you take for example
about Terry botas in the Williams you
see him accelerate out of this second
gear left-hander and he just gets
seventh gear before the end of the
straight as and has to break for the
next left-hander which is a quick corner
of fourth gear I think Sergio Perez in
the Mercedes powered Force India same as
the William same Mercedes power is in
fifth gear at the end of the straight a
much longer fourth gear a much longer
fifth gear and that to me is fascinating
so well Terry can get eight gear
actually at the end of that straight
Kimi Raikkonen getting seventh suit ill
in the Ferrari engine salberg getting
seven that the industry but Sergio Perez
who was very quick today beautiful to
watch only getting fifth at the end of
the straight now that in my mind can
only be because Force India are gearing
from monza downwards they're thinking
DRS monza this is what we're going to
need at the fastest circuit and let's
let everything come down from there
where's everybody else I think is
thinking well we just had lots of
clothes ratios before we'll just go for
it again and basically replicate and you
notice it actually coming out of this
second year left-hander botas a couple
of times was getting wheel spins second
third fourth fifth gear and I say that
because you can see a red light coming
on and we think I've talked a few
engineers about this under acceleration
although in theory that red light comes
on when is a talk production taking
place in other words in a braking area
when the driver is taking everything out
of the car to warm the guy behind him
that he might be getting a bit slower
it's also coming on spasmodically under
acceleration and most of the engineers
think this is when actually the rear
wheels are breaking traction and just
momentarily and that's why we're seeing
those red lights coming on and you see
it quite a lot on that Williams Mercedes
the the interesting thing is the drivers
in the cars chatting to them are
listening the thing they hear most is
the turbo not the engine and so they're
not actually as aware perhaps as a
classic racing driver from the 60s 70s
80s and 90s would have been of wheelspin
under acceleration we're talking a
relatively small moment here in time but
bearing in mind they're listening to the
turbo not to the engine and bearing in
mind it's a very small instantaneous
thing as you get that wheel spin as you
get the next gear they're probably not
going to feel that either what that's
going to be like in the wet I don't know
but it'd be interesting to see whether
they get on top of that business of the
red lights coming on under acceleration
before the first race in Melbourne
another point that occurred to me
watching all afternoon from this corner
was and looking at the lights the
amazing lights that the baronies have
put up everywhere for the night race
that we're having in April to me it's a
bit surprising that they haven't allowed
one of the days of testing to extend to
start later and to extend into the night
just to give the circuit and the drivers
one a couple of hours of running at
night under lights but I guess they
haven't done that nobody really knows
why they haven't done that when you talk
about it they think maybe it's a quite a
good idea but I think the reason that
didn't come up at the time
was because everyone was just thinking
we've got to get out of Europe we gotta
run hot we got to get into these hot
ambient temperatures of Bahrain and so
nobody was thinking of cooler night
temperatures when all this was scheduled
a bit of a shame I think because the
lights are there ready to be used and
I'd love to see the circuit at night
little look absolutely superb anyway
those are general observations watching
from what is effectively turned nine and
a half I think I'm not sure it actually
has a turn number here because it's two
corners very close to one another and
what I'm going to do next is have a look
at the differences between some of the
drivers we saw today going through this
section of road